---
layout: post
title: Baskaran Sankaran thesis Proposal
---

Baskaran will present his thesis proposal on 21st September,2012. 

<div>
{% referencelist %}
@thesis{BaskaranPhDThesis,
	author = {Baskaran Sankaran},
	title =  {Improvements in Hierarchical Phrase-Based Machine Translation Models},
	abstract = {Hierarchical phrase-based translation (Hiero) model is among the prominent Statistical Machine Translation (SMT) models that attains competitive translation performance compared to other models. Hiero models are more expressive than phrase-based models and yet are much simpler than full syntax-based models. We propose improvements to the Hiero framework particularly in training translation grammars from bitexts.

Firstly we propose novel Bayesian models for extracting compact but accurate Hiero grammars by extracting minimal translation rules without impacting the translation performance. The model could further be scaled to large datasets (that are typical in SMT) by a distributed framework employing variational inference to do exact inference and this contrasts the approximate inference that is done usually. We then take a different approach of extracting a larger grammar that better models the ambiguities and typological differences in the languages, which are expressed through varying degree of alignments between the source and target phrases. Under this approach we model the source-target alignments and synchronous derivations (with rules having arbitrary arity) simultaneously and we expect this to improve the translation performance compared to the current approaches just focusing on either of them.

We also propose a new approach for improving feature weight training by jointly optimizing towards multiple machine translation evaluation metrics and our results in this direction so far are promising. This could be applied to different SMT frameworks as well as to both pair-wise and batch optimization settings. The models for extracting compact grammars have been published while the other work of simultaneously modeling alignments and derivations is currently ongoing. Work on multi-metric optimization is expected to be completed in near future.}
}
{% endreferencelist %}
</div>
